To encourage us to promptly follow up
on interest that we find
in the field ministry,
Paul likens our work to a plant
that grows from a little seed.
Now, what’s vital for a planted seed to grow?
One authority says:
“Of all the factors
that determine seed germination,
water is the first and most important.”
And another reference says:
“Until seeds have sprouted,
keep the seed bed moist,
never allowing it to dry out.”
So, what will happen
to a seed that is not watered?
Nothing!
It will lay dormant.
See, regular watering
is vital for a seed to sprout,
to take root
and, in fact, continue to grow.
Now, with these facts in mind,
Paul’s words at 1 Corinthians 3:6
show that more is required
than simply planting a seed of truth.
Let’s note his words.
It’s at 1 Corinthians 3:6.
It says:
“I planted, Apollos watered,
but God kept making it grow.”
So all credit goes to Jehovah God
for making the spiritual seed grow,
but he allows us
to have a role in the process.
Did you notice
the important role Apollos played?
He did the watering.
In a regular way,
he helped keep
the spiritual soil of the individual moist,
never allowing it to dry out.
Many people who show interest
in the Kingdom message today
are searching for the truth about God.
In order to teach them progressively,
we must return again and again.
This requires good preparation
and organization on our part.
By promptly making return visits,
we demonstrate
a sincere concern for the individual,
wanting to help them grow spiritually
and develop a relationship with Jehovah.
In the following video,
notice how a sister follows up
on interest shown.
Ami left a great question for her next visit.
Return visit! Mrs. Iwata!
I told her I’d visit this morning.
I just didn’t schedule the time.
I could at least stop by on the way back.
I missed her again.
If I didn’t try something different,
I was just going to keep missing her.
First, I wanted her
to know I hadn’t forgotten her.
Dear Mrs. Iwata,
I hope you’re doing well.
I promise to come by early next week.
By the way, your flowers are so beautiful!
Then I made a plan for my service day.
Following through is just too important
to leave to chance.
As you plan your share in the ministry,
follow the good example
of the sister in the video
and schedule time
to make regular return visits.
Doing so is just as important
as other aspects of our ministry.
These regular visits with interested people
are vital links in the chain
leading to a Bible study.
In our ministry,
we often compliment the householder
for the beautiful flowers or plants
in their yard,
just like the sister did in the video.
But how did they get that way?
Well, the householder
probably watered them on set days
or even used an automatic sprinkler timer
to schedule regular watering cycles.
See, to have healthy and vibrant plants,
watering cannot be left to chance.
Well, how can we apply that to our ministry?
Before leaving a person
that has shown interest,
endeavor to set
the proper time to water.
The water of truth will come on.
See?
Perhaps ask, “On what day or hour
would you like for me to return
to continue our discussion
or to answer the question?”
See, this consideration
really dignifies the person,
allowing them to share
in setting the appointment.
It’s important that we be willing
to water an interested person
at the most convenient time for them.
Then, just like setting a timer,
put that appointment
where you’ll remember it.
The sister in the video
put it in her electronic calendar
so she could be reminded later.
If you promise someone that you’ll return,
then keep your promise.
Remember Jesus’ simple statement
recorded at Matthew 5:37:
“Just let your word ‘Yes’ mean yes.”
If they’re truly interested,
they may go to great efforts
to keep the appointment.
How disappointed they would be
if we didn’t show up!
Following through is just too important
to leave to chance.
Because of the busy lives
that people have today,
it may be hard
to find the person at home again,
even if you set an appointment.
So it’s a good idea to try
and obtain his contact information,
maybe his phone number.
Some publishers anticipate this challenge
and simply ask, “Do you text?”
By simply texting,
you may be able to keep in touch
and cultivate the interest further.
And if you can’t get his contact information
and the person isn’t home
at the agreed-upon time,
you might leave a brief note,
just as the sister did in the video.
And this will assure the householder
that you haven’t forgotten them.
The disciple-making work
requires patience and persistence.
In this regard, note what
Ecclesiastes 11:6 says.
Ecclesiastes 11:6
—it says:
“Sow your seed in the morning
“and do not let your hand rest
until the evening;
“for you do not know
which will have success,
“whether this one or that one,
or whether they will both do well.”
When it comes to planting literal seed,
we don’t know when and where it will sprout.
Many factors are beyond our control.
Something similar can be said
of the disciple-making work.
We need to be patient and positive
because we don’t know who will respond.
Last and of utmost importance:
Even if the return visit is brief,
share a Scriptural thought.
The spiritual content of our conversation
is what makes our visit different
from any others that they may have.
See, they have neighbors,
friends, workmates,
or relatives that check in on them.
But for them to grow spiritually,
the water of truth from God’s Word
must be dispensed.
See, conveying
just a brief Scriptural thought
may provide just enough
to keep their spiritual soil moist.
The work involved of following up interest
is a very important assignment
that Jehovah has given to each of us.
With this in mind,
let’s return to Paul’s illustration
and see how Jehovah views us.
It’s back at 1 Corinthians chapter 3,
and verse 9.
It says:
“For we are God’s fellow workers.
You are God’s field under cultivation,
God’s building.”
It’s an honor to be one
of “God’s fellow workers.”
It enables us to show our love
for him and for our neighbors.
It brings us great joy
to share “the good news of peace”
by following up on interest shown.
And we can be assured
that those who respond favorably
will forever appreciate our diligent efforts
when they recall how we promptly followed up
when they showed interest.
Brother William Malenfant,
a helper to the Teaching Committee,
will now present
the final talk of this symposium,
“Be Ready to Share ‘the Good News of Peace’
—Help Students Grow to Maturity.”